# express-chat-app

This is a chat app I've been working on for a while. It uses express and node.js for the backend, MongoDB for storage, and socket.io for communicating between the server and the user. Currently the chat app is hosted on https://maxvek.com/chat. To access the chat you need to make an account by signing up with a username and password at https://maxvek.com/chat/sign-up.html, and then you can log in and chat with other people!

## navigating the app

The layout of the chat app is very easy to understand. The left side of the screen is taken up by a sidebar that displays the current logged in user at the top, and then all of the rooms the user is in under that. The top '+' button can be used to create a new room. The right side of the screen is taken up by another sidebar which displays the users in the current room, and at the bottom has buttons for various settings for the room. At the top of the screen you will just find bar that display the name of the current room. The bottom of the screen is taken up by the input where you can type a message and the 'Send' button which sends the message to the room. Finally, the middle of the screen is the display which displays all the messages in the room and who they were sent by (note that messages sent by you will always be on the left side and will appear blue, while messages sent by others will appear on the right side and be colored grey).

## using the app

The app works similarly to other chat apps. When you load into the app, you will be taken to the 'general' room. Every user is added to the 'general' room, and this room cannot be deleted or left by any user. To send a message you can type something in the bar at the bottom of the screen and either hit 'Enter' or press the 'Send' button to send the mesage. To move to another room just click on one of the circles on the left bar. You will then see the text on the top bar change to the room that you just switched to. To create a new room you can click the button with the '+', and a menu will popup to create the new room. The users in your current room are shwon on the right sidebar. Users with a green circle next to their name are currently in **that** room, while users with a red circle next to their name are either logged out or are in a different room. Finally, for every room you can add users, remove users, leave the room, and delete the room. All of these options can be found at the bottom right of the screen.  
